Materials needed:
• Fabric needed: 1 piece - 15” by 7.5” (this is the main piece of fabric for the mask). Fabric should be a tightlywoven, high quality, preshrunk cotton material that can withstand heavy, frequent, high temperature launderingand autoclave conditions (steam under pressure)
• Interfacing: 906F fusible sheerweight interfacing 7”x7” –we tested for permeability with and without theinterfacing and found that placement of this polyester interfacing decreased permeability.
• Aluminum wire (see below) 1/8” x 6.5” (Nose piece)
• For fabric tie mask: 2 pieces bias tape/seam binding ½” x 40” (ties)
• For elastic loop tie mask: 2 pieces 9.75” (1/8” to ¼” elastic, or durable rope elastic) AND 2 pieces 4.75” by 2”(this is used to make two bias pieces for the sides of the mask)

Directions:
Step 1: Cut fabric 15" x 7.5"
Step 2: Fuse a piece of polyester interfacing to the back side of what will be the most anterior layer of the mask
Step 3: Serge or zigzag stitch the short edges
Step 4: Fold right sides together with the short edges together
Step 5: Mark 1.5" from sides to leave opening for filter gap
Step 6: Sew the edge closed to the mark on both sides (1/4” seams)
Step 7: Press open seam. You will now have a "tube" with the opening in the middle of the seam.
Step 8: Flip right side out and top stich down both sides of gap. Be careful to not catch the rest of the fabric in your topstitching
Step 9: With the front of the mask on your surface, fold the top of the long edge down ½”.
Step 10: Fold and press 1/2" down to make wire tube. Stitch down and all around the square, leaving an opening to put in thewire.
Step 11: Add the wire/metal nose piece, and stitch it closed.
Step 12: Make 3 pleats: pin, press, and sew. The pleats should be facing upwards on the back of the mask.

For fabric tie mask:
Step 13: Apply bias to both short sides to make the ties: cut two 40” pieces of ½” bias tape. Pin bias tape to sides of mask withapproximately 16” extra bias tape coming off the sides for ties. Top stitch the length of the bias tape. The ties shouldmeasure 16” coming out of each corner.
Step 14: Pleats should be facing downward on the front side of the mask.
Step 15: The end user can insert an exchangeable filter in the pocket. We have tried several options (dense polyester batting,HEPA filter, autoclave fabric), but have no firm recommendation on material at this point in time. We also recommendplacement of a 7” long piece of vinyl or water resistant tape over the top of the mask (so that it covers the edge) on thetop and bottom of the mask to prevent wicking of fluid from the outside to the inside of the mask if it becomes very wet.

For elastic ear loop mask:
Step 13E: Iron fabric cut for bias in half, and then in half again to create the bias pieces.
Step 14E: Pin or clip bias piece of fabric to both sides and stitch down. I turned the edges over as shown and sewedstraight down each side.
Step 15E: Fold over the bias and top stitch close to make casing to hold the elastic.
Step 16E: Insert elastic thru the casing made. (I used my useful purple thing to pull the elastic thru here, you can use asafety pin here too.)
Step 17E: Match ends of elastic and tie a knot. Rotate elastic so that knot is inside the casing and not showing. Repeat steps 13E-16E for the elastic on the other side.

Notes:
Placement of a 7” long piece of vinyl or water resistant tape over the top and bottom of the mask reduces wicking offluid from the outside to the inside of the mask if it becomes very wet (not pictured).
